---
layout: post
title:  "20230207 TED - How books can open your mind | Lisa Bu"
date:   2023-02-07 23:29:31 +0900
categories: ted
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6ibCtsHgz3Y" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>


<br>

## Summary

Lisa Bu - Born in Hunan, China in the 1970s. Parents wanted to her to be engineerer, but she strongly wanted to be opera singer, although it comes to fail. Therefore, she had no choice but to turn her attention to books. This totally changed her life.

She went to USA in 1995, and she read books prohibited in China - such as Bible. Although Bible is little weird, the fifth commandment, "You shall honor your father and mother", totally changed her insights - from Confucian guilty to Honor to parents.

`Comparative Reading` - Chinese students grew up with "China-centered" map, but other maps not. - **why not do it in daily life too?** 
<br>She started to read two different books in pair - ex. two books with same event, but different writer
<br>Foreign languages - There are difference between Chinese and English
* happiness(English) -> fast joy(Chinese, Literally)
* bride(English) -> new mother(Chinese, Literally)

<br>

## Vocabulary
* `peasant` : a poor farmer or farm worker who has low social status
* `commandment` : an important rule given by God that tells people how to behave (Any of the Ten Commandments)
* `epiphany` : a Christian festival held on January 6 in honor of the coming of the three kings to the infant Jesus Christ
* `Confucian` : relating to Confucius or Confucianism. (`Confucianism` : a system of philosophical and ethical teachings founded by Confucius and developed by Mencius - Founded by Kong-Ja)

<br><br>
## Opinion
I'm very curious that she could be harmed from country's secret police - She gallently addressed she read banned books! I recognized that this video was made 9 years ago and I understood.

I think everyone knows that reading various book is necessary, however, they do not put into action. In other words, they are lazy and lethargic. Even though youtube is a very good measure to obtain various information, youtube, especially youtube algorithm, blurs discernment to accept diverse perspections and prohibit people from searching and approving opposite view of their knowing.