---
layout: post
title:  "20230206 TED - Grit: the power of passion and perseverance"
date:   2023-02-06 22:29:31 +0900
categories: ted
---
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/H14bBuluwB8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Angele Lee Duckworth : Teaching students math for 7 years in New York public school - got a lot of data of students.

Assertion : **Grit is the best predictor of measuring who to be finally succeeded** in various jobs rather than IQ, social intelligence, wealthiness of parents, etc.

How to Build that? : She didn't know, but she hinted "growth mindset".


## Vocabulary
* grit : (informal) mental toughness and courage,

    * other meaning : to press or rub your teeth together(grit your teeth), 
    * very small pieces of sand or stone
    * or to show courage and determination when you are dealing with problems or challenges


* struck : past tense of "strike"

> Some of My strongest performers did not have stratospheric IQ scores.
* stratospheric : found or related to the stratosphere(the upper layer of the Earth's atmosphere that begins about 7 miles)
    * In her speaking, stratospheric is used figuratively to emphasize IQ score is not so high.

* cadet : a student at a military school who is preparing to be an officer

## What I think of this video
* Have I had a consistent belief which continues more than year? If not, I should be more "grit".
* Even this video doesn't contain very hard word, I could not fully understand whole sentences. I should try hard to listen to other English-saying materials.